Thus far we worked on the front end and we can't pick a file there.
Now let's move on to the back end and let's ensure that there we also accept such a file so that you
can indeed attach to a request.
And here on the back and we then extract it and store it now for Dad we'll add a third party package
which helps us with debt Malta.
You can just google for Malta.
It's a notorious middleware and it's built for Express charges as well.
So a note expressed to us middleware to be precise.
That helps us work with multipart foreign data.
Now that's the specific type of request body we can submit to the back end.
Thus far we use to Jason data.
Now we will actually switch to this different type of data for some requests and the special thing about
this type of data or dis data format is that it can contain a mixture of normal text data and file data
or binary data because Jason can only work with text data in the end.
Of course he can also include numbers but ultimately that's all just text right.
You can print it now binary data is different.
And Jason format can't deal with binary data multipart format I can and I will show you how to adjust
our requests we send to the back end to use this kind of data.
But first of all let's prepare to back in with this package to accept such data.
So for this we need to run npm install dash dash save Mulder.
And then here you can learn all about it.
But of course it will all to guide you through the steps you need to do to set up Mulder.
So let's first of all install it on the back end not on the front end but on the back and let's run
npm install dash dash safe Mulder.
And this will now installed this package into the back and there on the back end.
I will now add a new folder the middleware folder you can named as folder however you want but I created
because there I want to store my own custom middleware and one middleware as you file dash upload J.S.
middleware of course Malta already is a middleware that will help us but I will basically configured
to my requirements and wrap it into my own middleware which had an export.
So how does this work in the file upload J.S. file.
I will import Mulder first of all like this and with it imported I will execute it as a function a function
to which we can pass a conflagration object the result of this function is the actual file upload middleware
Malta provides and you find these same steps.
Basically new official Malta docks as well.
So this is now a middleware which we could use in our Express middleware chain.
They are for here in the end I will export file upload so I will export this middleware and then we
can adjust our configuration here in a global place and use that pre configured export middleware in
any Arab file we want for example in the user routes there we have to sign up out and on the sign up
route we of course want to accept images to be uploaded.
So here we can import our file upload middleware by requiring it from the middleware folder file upload
like this.
And then here on the post request on sign up request before we run any other middleware we can add file
upload thoughts single image.
This is how you use the multiple middleware concrete Middleware is actually the result of this single
call file upload.
So the thing I'm export to gear is not yet the middleware it's an object that has a bunch of pre configured
Middleware is for example a Mila where to retrieve a single file which we get access to with the single
method and then we have to specify the name the name in that to be expect the body of the incoming request
that will hold the image or the file that should be extracted and I here expect to have an image key
on the incoming request which should then hold the well image.
I want to extract so this instructs Malta to extract that image or that file on that image key on the
incoming request before we continue with the obvious steps.
The question just is what does Malta do with that extract that image.
Of course you want to store it somewhere.
So here in the file upload J File we can configure Malta a little bit we can configure it to tell it
where to store is something and all the which files to accept first of all I want to set a little filter
here a limit for our files we can set a limit and byte here and I want to set this to five hundred thousand
bytes to ever upload limit of 500 kilobytes and of course you can adjust this to your personal likings
here Mulder also takes a storage key and here we can control how data should get stored now this storage
key requires a multi-year storage driver and Malta has a built in disk storage driver so we can call
Malta disk storage to generate such a driver which we provide to storage.
Now here we can set certain object properties on an object we provide to disk storage to configure dead
disk storage and there we can specifically set a destination key to control the destination where files
get stored and also a file name key to control the file name that's being used now both take functions
here so we pass a function to each of these keys the destination function here gets the request object
the file which was extracted and a callback which we have to call once we're done the file name function
here also gets the request object although the file and also callback.
Now let's maybe start with the file name there first of all one to extract my extension off the incoming
file and for Dad I will trade a little help or a constant up there which I'll name MIME type map.
This is a simple javascript object where I will map certain MIME types which look like this to certain
file extensions and I'll do this for image PMG and also for the Q Jay Peak types we have why am I doing
this.
Because Mulder gives us some information about the MIME type it found for the uploaded file.
MIME types look like this.
And basically tell us which kind of file we're dealing with.
So with this map I can drive to right extension from the identified MIME type so I can use my MIME type
map here and dynamically access the property that matches my file dog MIME type.
This is the file object Mulder gives me and there I have various fields one of them is the MIME type.
Mulder found MIME type will look like this and therefore then I extract the right extension here because
it dynamically access is one of these properties here.
These are valid properties in JavaScript.
We just have to wrap them in quotes.
I dynamically X is one of these properties and gets the extension that's mapped to it.
So this gives me the extension I want to use then I want to call this callback pass null as a first
argument.
We could throw an error here passing an error if something went wrong but that shouldn't be the case
here.
And then the file name I want to use and there I want to generate a unique idea and for this we can
reuse a package we installed earlier.
The you you I.D. package and import V1 for example and then call you you Aidid to generate a random
unique file name here and then just add a dot and then the extension.
So this generates a random filing with the right extension.
This is passed as a second argument to call back and this in the end is handled internally by Malta
to then use this file name.
Now in destination we do something similar for deriving the path where we want a stewardess.
It's simpler though I just have to call callback here.
I got no error so I'll pass null as a first argument and then the string which describes the path where
I want to stored is in here when I go for uploads slash images and I will therefore create a new folder
here which I'll name uploads and in there a new folder images and that is where I want to store my data.
Just like that with all of that disk storage is configured.
Now let's continue configuring Mulder because I also want to set up a so-called file filter and no proper
TB can pass to the object we use to configure Mulder.